---
layout: post
title: 做自己喜欢的事 / 为什么你可以改变人生目标
---

This is in fact a good thing, you can quit if you want to have a different life.

Based on statistics rather than your own imagination, many people will not stay in the academic world: some lost their interest in research, some find they earn less money than most people, some find they need to support their family, some find the academic world is not what they imagine...

For a long-term work, if you just want to do it to show you're smart, then probably you will regret the choice in maybe 4 years. Many people online claiming they really like XXX (big words) will disappear after 2-3 years.

I won't use the sentence "XX work is better than XX work", it does not apply to everyone. In fact, what you like the best is the best. So you should think more about the choice, to make fewer regrets in life. Don't let the zeal of the convert make you hate things you did before.

It's a difficult thing to find what you really like because many people will follow the "common sense". If most people in society think that physics is cool, they will probably also think it's cool, not finding out why it's cool or which part is cool for themselves.

So it's better if you change your life.

For me, I just want to make something that nobody has ever done before, even if it's a small thing. And in fact, I have already learned and done some interesting things. I don't care if no one else cares about it, because I know it's good for me. I enjoy the process, and the research won't make the world worse than before.

For instance, Joseph Redmon, the author of YOLO, said "I stopped doing CV research because I saw the impact my work was having. I loved the work but the military applications and privacy concerns eventually became impossible to ignore.". If you want to earn a lot of money or reputations, in a way that will harm many other (poor) people in the world, then it's not a good thing.

Also, I think I can live in a better way in real life. "better" does not mean comparison to others, but comparison to myself.

Everyone has their own choice, I hope people will find what they like in the end. And it's good that you choose to go to Wall Street if you like it.
