---
layout:post
title: 为什么我会关心有限平坦群概形的deformation?
---

The definition of "important" is very vague, so I just mention an interesting small question that haven't been studied by people for more than 20 years. Recall

(Lagrange) For any finite group G of order n, g^n=1 for all g in G.

We can talk about group objects in other interesting categories.

For instance, you can easily invent the notion of "group scheme" over any scheme S.

For any finite locally free group scheme G over S, you can define "the order of G" as the rank of O_G (as a O_S-module).

Question: For any such G over S of order n, must multiplication by n times i.e the map [n]: G -> G be zero?

It's consider to be an interesting small question for general G and S by Grothendieck, see Lemme 7.3. and Remarque 7.3.1 in [SGA 3, Exp. VIII].

If G is etale, then this is just classical Lagrange's theorem. If S is over rational numbers Q, then all G are etale by Oort's theorem.
2. It's proved to be correct by Deligne in 1969 for commutative G, using Cartier duality and a simple determinant trick.

3. It's proved to be correct in SGA 3 for any G over a reduced S. The idea is that you can easily reduced to the case S is Spec of a field by localization. Then you can embed G to some GL_N, and we have a concrete description of the Hopf algebra of GL_N that allows you to compare [p^k]I and I^{p^k} (mod p) .

After this, the key step is simple linear algebra: if you have a vector space of dim=m over a field k, then any strict filtration of subspaces will go to zero in no more than m steps. This is in fact one key difficulty for general S.

4. The general case is wildly open. By standard arguments, you can assume S=Spec A, where (A, m) is an Artin local ring with residue characteristic p>0 (in particular henselian), and G is local of prime order p^k i.e connected (by connected-etale sequence, see Tate's paper on finite flat group schemes).

It's proved to be correct if S=Spec A with m^p=0 in particular A=k[x]/x^2 where k is a field of characteristic p. This is René Schoof’s work in 2001. It's by classification and concrete computations e.g Hochschild cohomology which is used in deformation theory, I strongly encourage people to read this short paper.

5. In fact, I once spent two months thinking about this question, only got some small results by brutal computation. My interests in this small question are two-fold, I will talk about this question at 2021 if I have worked it out.
